Before going to simulate.
It's very important to understand the concept of mathematical modelling of some systems and engineering.
We have a giving system which can be mechanical electrical hydraulic and simple.
In some cases a system can have for example mechanical and electric components.
We apply as a related physical concept to rides a mathematical equations that governs a system.
These equations can be used for further modelling techniques like process modelling actually simulate
because a tool to create a process modeling for a giving system in this lecture you are going to look
at the mess medical modelling of some mechanical systems.
You will learn how to write them as medical equations and then how to find this transfer function in
mechanical systems are some important components.
Zohar spring damper and mass.
Spring is a mechanical element that resists motion.
The spring has a constant K and two ends each and has a certain displacement the resistant force developed
by a spring according to hawks low F S equals to k times delta.
The spring exerts force if only users are different in displacement between its two ends at Ember.
Same as the springs the number has of them being coefficient C and two ends.
The number force F D equals to C times delta velocity which means that the number only exerts force
if there is a change in velocity and their sheer force before talking about in their sheer force.
I need to say that there is a big debate in considering an issue of force a real force.
I don't believe that inertia forces are real forces and this helps me a lot to modern mechanical systems
very easily.
However it's not our subject.
MSM has emotion for example why instead of direction and in their sheer force is developed and equals
to mass times acceleration or NY that will dots in the other direction.
These are linear components which means they are related to linear emotion.
There are also rotating elements like torsion a spring or rotating damper and inertia.
There are resisting rotating motion and mathematical modelling of mechanical systems.
We write the equation of motion for each mass or inertia element.
We do that by drawing the free body that Graham and analyzing the forces using Newton's second law.
Let's see an example in this example.
A mass m has a motion y in the right direction.
The mass is connected to a member which is mounted on the wall and to a spring the spring 2nd end is
moving was displacement X which is input by throwing a free but at the Graham of mass m.
There are three forces inertia of force which equals two m y double dots spring force which is K times.
Delta and Delta here is Y minus X then being forced which is equals to see y dot.
Now summing all the forces including this in your sheer force and equal all forces to zero I want to
say that according to Newton's Second low the summation of all the forces in a moving body equals to
mass times acceleration.
But I'm using that embedded concept which is considering any moving system is a balanced system or the
term of their sheer force is a force that balances the system.
So the sum mission of all forces including the inertia of force equals to zero in order to make sure
that the equation of motion is correct.
Always make sure that the mass motion terms why why adults and why they will not have the same sign
now running down the equation of motion and why double thoughts plus Seaway plus K times why minus X
equals to zero or m y there's a lot plus you thought plus K Y equals two K X in order to complete the
mass medical modelling and move to process modelling using plug that grandma will take is an A plus
transformation of this equation so m y the DOT is M S A SQUARE Y Capital C I thought is C S Y capital
K why is K Y capital K X is K X capital as you can see is a differential equation is now and then Djibril
equation and it's easy to write down just transfer function which is output overs and but by thinking
y capital as a common factor y times MSA squared plus C S plus k equals two K X Y over x equals two
K over MSA squared plus C S plus K
let's see another example this example is nothing but the previous problem but instead of linear motion
is a rotating motion we have here in there she had J and a rotating member C torsion is spring K which
is a flexible shaft that post ends are rotating in a different angles see the eye and said oh just creates
an existing torque end but as I said I the rotation of inertia is cedar Oh now write downs a torque
equation based on the free but a diagram.
Same as the force the equation of motion J C the O double lot plus C C the O dot plus K time C to o
minus C I equals 2 0 j you see it oh double dot plus C C the O dot plus k c the O equals to K CDI by
taking the plus transformation of this equation and ordering the terms C the O overseas I equals 2 k
over J as a squared plus C S plus k.
Now let's move to process modelling techniques using plot diagram which is very similar to simulating
in some cases it's easier to express them as medical equations in a block for the main function of this
block is to show exactly is a process that is needed to go from input to output to block that Grams
consists of arrows or signals rectangular blocks and summing blocks let's see an example.
This is a block diagrams that relates the input x does output y output Y equals two B times A times
X minus Y times C A B and C are some sorts of operations.
Let's examine this equations.
Y equals to a signal B which is multiplied by another signal a.
So these strict angled blocks represents a and b a line that goes from A to B means is that A is multiplied
by B B A is multiplied by another signal called X minus Y C which means take an arrow or signal from
output y multiplied by a block called C and the result is subtracted from the input x using a summation
pluck the final the result is X minus Y C so lets follows this plot that gram an input x is entering
that a gram X signal is subtracted from Y C to produce x minus y c x minus y c is multiplied by a and
Z multiplied by B the result is Y equals to be a times x minus y see the Y signal is defeated back to
complete and closes a block diagram Y is and multiplied by C let's apply this on our two examples.
Now you can think of how easy becomes after taking a plus transformation of the equation of motion it's
a block diagram of post examples is a simplest form of any plug diagram and the first example is the
input x signal is multiplied by this transfer function to produce output y.
The second example is the same the input signal is see the eye.
That is multiplied by as the transfer function K over J as a squared plus C S plus K to produce the
output CDO.